---
layout: post
title:  "Data Learning Project: Data Science Template"
---

# Project Template

## Role:
Make it clear if it is a personal Project or if you were part of a team. If personal give a sense of the effort (e.g. x hours / week outside of core curriculum) you put in; if part of a team clarify your responsibilities

## *Step 1: Planning / Discovery*
## Synopsis

At the top of the file there should be a short introduction and/ or overview that explains **what** the project is. This description should match descriptions added for package managers (Gemspec, package.json, etc.)

## Objective & Motivation:
What you were trying to do, and why. A short description of the motivation behind the creation and maintenance of the project. This should explain **why** the project exists.

## *Step 2: Data Prep*
## Data:
Detail the approximate dataset size and skew, how (e.g., software and techniques used) to store, extract and clean the data

## *Step 3: Model Planning & Building*
## Models:
Specify models and statistical techniques used, as well as programming languages and libraries used to construct them (paying particular attention here to the requirements noted on the job posting - the more you can cover off keywords/asks for the role the better!)

## Code:
It is worth linking to your Github account to give the Hiring Manager the option to check out the code (plus it just makes it all the more credible that you’ve actually done the work!). A bonus option here is to also create a readme.md for the projects you’re featuring on your resume - this template is a good example

## Code Example
Show what the library does as concisely as possible, developers should be able to figure out **how** your project solves their problem by looking at the code example. Make sure the API you are showing off is obvious, and that your code is short and concise.

## *Step 5: Operationalize*
## Installation
Provide code examples and explanations of how to get the project.

## Tests
Describe and show how to run the tests with code examples.

## *Step 6: Results*
## Results:
Try whenever possible to demonstrate the outcome with numerical impact or significance (it pops off the resume more than a text-only sentence) and is an indicator of how impact-oriented (or not!) you are in your work

## API Reference
Depending on the size of the project, if it is small and simple enough the reference docs can be added to the README. For medium size to larger projects it is important to at least provide a link to where the API reference docs live.
